---
title: "Fluid-Structure Interaction Modelling and Analysis of Soft Fiber-Reinforced Bending Actuator (Under Review)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2024-xx-zju-paper-3
excerpt: 'This work is about proposing an approach for modeling the SFRBAs using fluid-structure interaction (FSI) method, combining computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and nonlinear structural analysis (NSA).'
date: 2024-07-01
venue: 'International Journal of Mechanical Science'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Yongkai Ye, Chaoyue Han, Dongdong Du, (2024). Fluid-Structure Interaction Modelling and Analysis of Soft Fiber-Reinforced Bending Actuator. International Journal of Mechanical Science, Under Review.'
---

Author List
======
**Yongkai Ye**, Chaoyue Han, Dongdong Du 

Abstract
======
Soft fiber-reinforced bending actuators (SFRBAs) are multi-material soft actuators and have great potential in robotics applications due to their robust bending deformation and high contact force. However, the multi-material compositions of SFRBAs cause significant nonlinear issues, which pose a challenge for researchers to model their behavior. This study presented an approach for modeling the SFRBAs using fluid-structure interaction (FSI) method, combining computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and nonlinear structural analysis (NSA). The bending angle and contact force were utilized as the indices to evaluate the efficiency of the proposed FSI. First, semicircular SFRBAs were selected as research objects, whose key structural parameters were defined and constituted a parameter group for subsequent experiments. On this basis, a fully-coupled three-dimensional FSI method was proposed by introducing the air flow dynamics and Yeoh hyperelastic material theory to obtain the relationship among the two indices, actuation pressure, and structure. To ensure the reliability and efficiency, the grid independence verification of FSI simulations was conducted. Then, the parameter group was varied to made several experimental samples to verify the FSI, and results demonstrated FSI method outperforms conventional finite element method and analytical models, yielding an average root mean square error (RMSE) of 14.47° and symmetric mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) of 6.78% for bending angle and an average RMSE of 0.17 N and SMAPE of 16.21% for contact force. Furthermore, the FSI method was employed to conduct structural influence analysis to obtain the degree of influence of the structural parameters, and the findings demonstrated the top semicircular wall thickness played the dominant decreasing influence in the bending angle and air chamber radius had the significant increasing influence in the contact force. This work exemplifies a FSI method that combines CFD and NSA for modeling multi-material SFRBAs, paving the way for assisting in the design, modeling, and optimization of SFRBAs and their practical applications.

Keywords
======
Soft robotics; Soft actuators; Fluid-structure interaction; Finite element method; Structural influence analysis
